GETTING_STARTED.md, before:

# Getting Started with the Rizzium Workspace

This guide will help you set up and work with the Rizzium monorepo workspace, which uses NX, Angular, and Firebase.

## Initial Setup

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:
   ```bash
   git clone <repo-url>
   cd rizzium
   npm install
   ```

## Creating a New App

### Automated Setup

1. Use the provided setup script:
   ```bash
   chmod +x setup-app.sh
   ./setup-app.sh
   # Follow the prompts to enter your app name
   ```

### Manual Setup (if needed)

```bash
# Create Angular app
nx g @nx/angular:app {app-name} --directory=apps/{app-name}

# Add Firebase
nx g @simondotm/nx-firebase:app firebase --directory=apps/{app-name} --project={app-name}

# Add Firebase function
nx g @simondotm/nx-firebase:function {function-name} --app={app-name}-firebase
```

## Understanding setup-app.sh

The setup script (`setup-app.sh`) automates several important setup steps:

1. **Project Structure Creation**

   - Creates Angular app in `apps/{app-name}/angular/`
   - Sets up Firebase configuration in `apps/{app-name}/firebase/`
   - Initializes Firebase Functions in `apps/{app-name}/functions/`

2. **Configuration Updates**

   - Updates paths in `project.json`
   - Configures ESLint for Angular and Functions
   - Sets up proper TypeScript configuration
   - Initializes Jest testing setup

3. **Firebase Setup**

   - Creates initial Firebase Function (user management)
   - Configures Firebase emulator ports
   - Sets up Firebase hosting
   - Initializes Firebase deployment configuration

4. **CI/CD Setup**
   - Creates GitHub Actions workflow file
   - Sets up proper deployment triggers
   - Configures caching and build steps
   - Sets up Firebase deployment

### Key Features

- **Automatic Directory Structure**

  ```
  apps/
    └── your-app/
        ├── angular/        # Angular application
        ├── firebase/       # Firebase configuration
        └── functions/      # Firebase Functions
  ```

- **Default Firebase Function**

  - Includes user management function
  - Sets up proper Node.js runtime (18)
  - Configures proper deployment settings

- **GitHub Actions Integration**
  - Creates app-specific workflow
  - Sets up proper secret requirements
  - Configures build and deploy steps

### Requirements

Before running setup-app.sh:

1. Firebase project must be created
2. Firebase CLI must be installed
3. GitHub repository must be set up
4. Node.js 18 must be installed

## Firebase Project Setup

1. Go to Firebase Console (https://console.firebase.google.com/)
2. Create a new project with the same name as your app (to secure the domain name)
3. Configure project settings:
   - Set Environment type to production
   - Enable Blaze (pay-as-you-go) plan - required for Functions
4. Enable required Firebase services:
   - Firestore Database
   - Realtime Database
   - Storage
   - Hosting
   - Functions
   - Authentication (enable Google, Anonymous, and Email providers)

## Setting up Firebase Service Account for GitHub Actions

1. Go to the Firebase Console (https://console.firebase.google.com/)
2. Select your project
3. Go to Project Settings (gear icon) > Service accounts
4. Click "Generate New Private Key" button
5. Save the JSON file securely (DO NOT commit this to git)

### Required IAM Roles

Your service account needs exactly these roles:

- Cloud Functions Admin
- Cloud Storage for Firebase Admin
- Firebase Admin
- Firebase Admin SDK Administrator Service Agent
- Firebase Authentication Admin
- Firebase Extensions API Service Agent
- Firebase Extensions Publisher - Extensions Admin
- Firebase Hosting Admin
- Firebase Realtime Database Admin
- Firebase Rules Admin
- Service Account Token Creator
- Service Account User
- Storage Admin
- Storage Object Admin

To add these roles:

1. Go to Google Cloud Console IAM (https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/iam)
2. Find your service account
3. Click the edit (pencil) icon
4. Add each required role
5. Save changes

### Required APIs

Ensure these APIs are enabled in your project:

1. Go to Google Cloud Console: https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library
2. Search for and enable each API:
   - Cloud Functions API
   - Cloud Storage API
   - Cloud Build API
   - Cloud Billing API
   - Firebase Management API
   - Firebase Extensions API
   - Firebase Hosting API
   - Firebase Rules API
   - Identity and Access Management (IAM) API

Note: The Cloud Billing API is especially important for deployments. To enable it:

1. Go to https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/cloudbilling.googleapis.com
2. Click "Enable"
3. Ensure your project is linked to a billing account

## Adding Secrets to GitHub Repository

1. Go to your GitHub repository
2. Navigate to Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions
3. Add the following secrets with your app's name prefix:
   - `APPNAME_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID`: Your Firebase project ID (found in Project Settings)
   - `APPNAME_GCP_SA_KEY`: The service account key JSON

For example, for RizzPOS app:

- `RIZZPOS_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID`: The Firebase project ID for RizzPOS
- `RIZZPOS_GCP_SA_KEY`: The service account key JSON for RizzPOS

Note: Always prefix secrets with the uppercase app name to avoid conflicts in the monorepo.

## Important Security Notes:

- Never commit service account keys to git
- Each app should have its own service account with minimum required permissions
- Regularly rotate service account keys
- Monitor service account usage in Google Cloud Console

### Serve Locally

```bash
# Serve Angular app
npx nx serve your-app-name

# Run Firebase emulators
nx serve your-app-name-firebase

# Kill emulator ports if stuck
npx kill-port 9099 5003 8278 9323 5004 8178 9199 9299 9324 8279
```

### Build

```bash
# Build Angular app
nx build your-app-name --prod

# Build Firebase components
nx build your-app-name-firebase
nx build your-app-name-functions-function-name
```

### Deploy

```bash
# Login to Firebase
firebase login
firebase use your-app-name

# Deploy
nx deploy your-app-name-firebase
nx deploy your-app-name-functions-function-name
```

## Project Structure

```
apps/
  ├── your-app/
  │   ├── angular/        # Angular application
  │   ├── firebase/       # Firebase configuration
  │   └── functions/      # Firebase Functions
libs/
  └── shared/            # Shared code
      ├── ui/            # UI components (Atomic Design)
      ├── services/      # Shared services
      └── interfaces/    # TypeScript interfaces
```

## Important Security Notes

- Never commit service account keys to git
- Each app should have its own service account with minimum required permissions
- Regularly rotate service account keys
- Monitor service account usage in Google Cloud Console

## Firebase Configuration

After setup:

1. Get Firebase config from Project Settings > General > Your Apps
2. Add config to your app's `firebase-config.ts` file

## Troubleshooting

- If emulators fail to start, use the kill-port command
- Ensure Firebase project name matches exactly what you entered in setup
- Check GitHub Actions secrets are correctly named with app prefix
- Verify Firebase project is on Blaze plan for Functions

## Additional Resources

- [NX Documentation](https://nx.dev)
- [Firebase CLI Documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli)
- [Angular Documentation](https://angular.io/docs)

## If app is deployed successfully

- start building the app with cursor ai
- deploy often, by making a PR and merging to main

### Managing Firestore Indexes

To get current Firestore indexes from your project:

```bash
# Export current indexes to firestore.indexes.json
firebase firestore:indexes > apps/your-app-name/firebase/firestore.indexes.json

# For specific project/app
firebase --project=your-project-id firestore:indexes > apps/your-app-name/firebase/firestore.indexes.json
```

For RizzPOS example:

```bash
firebase --project=rizzpos firestore:indexes > apps/rizzpos/firebase/firestore.indexes.json
```

Commit message:

chore: update Firebase configuration and enhance setup instructions
- Added 'finescan' project to .firebaserc for Firebase management.
- Updated GETTING_STARTED.md to reflect changes in the Firebase Console navigation and detailed steps for creating a service account for GitHub Actions.

GETTING_STARTED.md, after:

# Getting Started with the Rizzium Workspace

This guide will help you set up and work with the Rizzium monorepo workspace, which uses NX, Angular, and Firebase.

## Initial Setup

1. Clone the repository and install dependencies:
   ```bash
   git clone <repo-url>
   cd rizzium
   npm install
   ```

## Creating a New App

### Automated Setup

1. Use the provided setup script:
   ```bash
   chmod +x setup-app.sh
   ./setup-app.sh
   # Follow the prompts to enter your app name
   ```

### Manual Setup (if needed)

```bash
# Create Angular app
nx g @nx/angular:app {app-name} --directory=apps/{app-name}

# Add Firebase
nx g @simondotm/nx-firebase:app firebase --directory=apps/{app-name} --project={app-name}

# Add Firebase function
nx g @simondotm/nx-firebase:function {function-name} --app={app-name}-firebase
```

## Understanding setup-app.sh

The setup script (`setup-app.sh`) automates several important setup steps:

1. **Project Structure Creation**

   - Creates Angular app in `apps/{app-name}/angular/`
   - Sets up Firebase configuration in `apps/{app-name}/firebase/`
   - Initializes Firebase Functions in `apps/{app-name}/functions/`

2. **Configuration Updates**

   - Updates paths in `project.json`
   - Configures ESLint for Angular and Functions
   - Sets up proper TypeScript configuration
   - Initializes Jest testing setup

3. **Firebase Setup**

   - Creates initial Firebase Function (user management)
   - Configures Firebase emulator ports
   - Sets up Firebase hosting
   - Initializes Firebase deployment configuration

4. **CI/CD Setup**
   - Creates GitHub Actions workflow file
   - Sets up proper deployment triggers
   - Configures caching and build steps
   - Sets up Firebase deployment

### Key Features

- **Automatic Directory Structure**

  ```
  apps/
    └── your-app/
        ├── angular/        # Angular application
        ├── firebase/       # Firebase configuration
        └── functions/      # Firebase Functions
  ```

- **Default Firebase Function**

  - Includes user management function
  - Sets up proper Node.js runtime (18)
  - Configures proper deployment settings

- **GitHub Actions Integration**
  - Creates app-specific workflow
  - Sets up proper secret requirements
  - Configures build and deploy steps

### Requirements

Before running setup-app.sh:

1. Firebase project must be created
2. Firebase CLI must be installed
3. GitHub repository must be set up
4. Node.js 18 must be installed

## Firebase Project Setup

1. Go to Firebase Console (https://console.firebase.google.com/)
2. Create a new project with the same name as your app (to secure the domain name)
3. Configure project settings:
   - Set Environment type to production
   - Enable Blaze (pay-as-you-go) plan - required for Functions
4. Enable required Firebase services:
   - Firestore Database
   - Realtime Database
   - Storage
   - Hosting
   - Functions
   - Authentication (enable Google, Anonymous, and Email providers)

## Setting up Firebase Service Account for GitHub Actions

1. Go to Google Cloud Console (https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Select your project
3. Navigate to IAM & Admin > Service Accounts
4. Click "+ CREATE SERVICE ACCOUNT"
5. Enter the following details:
   - Service account name: `github-actions`
   - Service account ID: `github-actions`
   - Description: "Service account for GitHub Actions deployments"
6. Click "CREATE AND CONTINUE"
7. Add the required roles (listed below)
8. Click "DONE"
9. Find the newly created service account in the list
10. Click the three dots (⋮) > "Manage keys"
11. Click "ADD KEY" > "Create new key"
12. Choose JSON format and click "CREATE"
13. Save the JSON file securely (DO NOT commit this to git)

### Required IAM Roles

Your `github-actions` service account needs exactly these roles:

- Cloud Functions Admin
- Cloud Storage for Firebase Admin
- Firebase Admin
- Firebase Admin SDK Administrator Service Agent
- Firebase Authentication Admin
- Firebase Extensions API Service Agent
- Firebase Extensions Publisher - Extensions Admin
- Firebase Hosting Admin
- Firebase Realtime Database Admin
- Firebase Rules Admin
- Service Account Token Creator
- Service Account User
- Storage Admin
- Storage Object Admin

To add these roles:

1. Go to Google Cloud Console IAM (https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/iam)
2. Find your service account
3. Click the edit (pencil) icon
4. Add each required role
5. Save changes

### Required APIs

Ensure these APIs are enabled in your project:

1. Go to Google Cloud Console: https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library
2. Search for and enable each API:
   - Cloud Functions API
   - Cloud Storage API
   - Cloud Build API
   - Cloud Billing API
   - Firebase Management API
   - Firebase Extensions API
   - Firebase Hosting API
   - Firebase Rules API
   - Identity and Access Management (IAM) API

Note: The Cloud Billing API is especially important for deployments. To enable it:

1. Go to https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/cloudbilling.googleapis.com
2. Click "Enable"
3. Ensure your project is linked to a billing account

## Adding Secrets to GitHub Repository

1. Go to your GitHub repository
2. Navigate to Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions
3. Add the following secrets with your app's name prefix:
   - `APPNAME_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID`: Your Firebase project ID (found in Project Settings)
   - `APPNAME_GCP_SA_KEY`: The service account key JSON

For example, for RizzPOS app:

- `RIZZPOS_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID`: The Firebase project ID for RizzPOS
- `RIZZPOS_GCP_SA_KEY`: The service account key JSON for RizzPOS

Note: Always prefix secrets with the uppercase app name to avoid conflicts in the monorepo.

## Important Security Notes:

- Never commit service account keys to git
- Each app should have its own service account with minimum required permissions
- Regularly rotate service account keys
- Monitor service account usage in Google Cloud Console

### Serve Locally

```bash
# Serve Angular app
npx nx serve your-app-name

# Run Firebase emulators
nx serve your-app-name-firebase

# Kill emulator ports if stuck
npx kill-port 9099 5003 8278 9323 5004 8178 9199 9299 9324 8279
```

### Build

```bash
# Build Angular app
nx build your-app-name --prod

# Build Firebase components
nx build your-app-name-firebase
nx build your-app-name-functions-function-name
```

### Deploy

```bash
# Login to Firebase
firebase login
firebase use your-app-name

# Deploy
nx deploy your-app-name-firebase
nx deploy your-app-name-functions-function-name
```

## Project Structure

```
apps/
  ├── your-app/
  │   ├── angular/        # Angular application
  │   ├── firebase/       # Firebase configuration
  │   └── functions/      # Firebase Functions
libs/
  └── shared/            # Shared code
      ├── ui/            # UI components (Atomic Design)
      ├── services/      # Shared services
      └── interfaces/    # TypeScript interfaces
```

## Important Security Notes

- Never commit service account keys to git
- Each app should have its own service account with minimum required permissions
- Regularly rotate service account keys
- Monitor service account usage in Google Cloud Console

## Firebase Configuration

After setup:

1. Get Firebase config from Project Settings > General > Your Apps
2. Add config to your app's `firebase-config.ts` file

## Troubleshooting

- If emulators fail to start, use the kill-port command
- Ensure Firebase project name matches exactly what you entered in setup
- Check GitHub Actions secrets are correctly named with app prefix
- Verify Firebase project is on Blaze plan for Functions

## Additional Resources

- [NX Documentation](https://nx.dev)
- [Firebase CLI Documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli)
- [Angular Documentation](https://angular.io/docs)

## If app is deployed successfully

- start building the app with cursor ai
- deploy often, by making a PR and merging to main

### Managing Firestore Indexes

To get current Firestore indexes from your project:

```bash
# Export current indexes to firestore.indexes.json
firebase firestore:indexes > apps/your-app-name/firebase/firestore.indexes.json

# For specific project/app
firebase --project=your-project-id firestore:indexes > apps/your-app-name/firebase/firestore.indexes.json
```

For RizzPOS example:

```bash
firebase --project=rizzpos firestore:indexes > apps/rizzpos/firebase/firestore.indexes.json
```
